[
    {
        "transcript": "headphones that aren't so uncomfortable . I think {disfmarker} Well , this should be off the record , Hmm . but I think {disfmarker} Uh , OK . We 're not recording yet , are we ? Well , I don't think {disfmarker} No , uh , that {disfmarker} that wasn't recorded . No . Um , I don't think they 're designed to be over your ears . Yeah , I know . It just {disfmarker} it really hurts . It gives you a headache , like if you {disfmarker} On your temple {disfmarker} Temple squeezers . Yeah . Yep . Yeah . Mm - hmm . But I definitely {pause} haven't figured it out . Um , Meeting Recorder meeting . I guess I have to d stop doing this sigh of contentment , you know , after sipping cappuccino or something . Yeah , with the {disfmarker} We kno I know . \" Sip , sigh . \" We know exactly how much you have left in your cup . I was just noticing a big s So are we recording now ? Is this {disfmarker} Yeah . Oh ! We 're {disfmarker} we 're {disfmarker} we 're live . OK . Yeah . So , uh , {vocalsound} what were we gonna talk about again ? So we said {disfmarker} we said data collection , which we 're doing . Were we gonna do digits ? OK . Do we do th do you go around the room {pause} and do names or anything ? I think that {disfmarker} It 's a good idea . u usually we 've done that and also we 've s done digits as well , but I forgot to print any out . So . Besides with this big a group , You can write them on the board , if you want . No . I it 'd be even better with this big {disfmarker} it would take too much time . Which way is {disfmarker} Yeah , but it takes too much time . Mari ? What {disfmarker} What ? It 's not that long . Y I think your {disfmarker} your {disfmarker} your thing {nonvocalsound} may be pointing in a funny direction . Sort of it 's {disfmarker} it helps if it points sort of upwards . Whoops . Sort of it {disfmarker} you know . Would it {disfmarker} m Yeah . w u So that thing {disfmarker} the little {disfmarker} th that part should be pointing upwards . So {disfmarker} Oh , this thing . That 's it . Yeah . Yeah . Otherwise you just get a heartbeats . It 's kind of {disfmarker} Oh , yeah , the element , yeah , n should be as close to you {disfmarker} your mouth as possible . Yeah . OK . That 's good . That kind of thing is good . It 's a {disfmarker} This w Alright . Yeah . How 's that working ? Yeah . Oh , yeah . It 's a {disfmarker} It 's working . OK . Alright . So what we had {pause} was that we were gonna talk about data collection , and , um , uh , you {disfmarker} you put up there data format , Um . and other tasks during data collection , So , I think the goal {disfmarker} the goal was what can we do {disfmarker} how can you do the data collection differently to get {disfmarker} and {disfmarker} what can you add to it to get , um , some information that would be helpful for the user - interface design ? Like {disfmarker} Uh , especially for querying . Especially for querying . So , getting people to do queries afterwards , getting people to do summaries afterwards . Um . Well , one thing that came up in the morning {disfmarker} in the morning was the , um , i uh , if he {disfmarker} I , um {disfmarker} if he has {disfmarker} s I {disfmarker} I don't remember , Mister Lan - Doctor Landry ? Landay . James . La - Landay ? So he has , um , these , uh , um , tsk {comment} note - taking things , Mm - hmm . then that would sort of be a summary which you wouldn't have to solicit . y if {disfmarker} if we were able to {disfmarker} to do that . Well , if {disfmarker} if you actually take notes as a summary as opposed to n take notes in the sense of taking advantage of the time - stamps . So action item or uh , reminder to send this to so - and - so , blah - blah - blah . Mm - hmm . So that wouldn't be a summary . That would just be {disfmarker} that would b relate to the query side . But if we had the CrossPads , we could ask people , you know , if {disfmarker} if something comes up {vocalsound} write it down and mark it {vocalsound} {pause} somehow , Mm - hmm . Right . I mean , we {disfmarker} because you 'd have several people with these pads , you could collect different things . you know . Right . I mean , cuz I tend to take notes which are summaries . And so , you know {disfmarker} I mean , the down - side to that is that he sort of indicated that the , uh , quality of {vocalsound} the handwriting recognition was quite poor . Well {disfmarker} But that 's alright . I don't think there 'd be so many that you couldn't have someone clean it up So {disfmarker} pretty easily . Yeah . We also could come up with some code for things that people want to do so that {disfmarker} for frequent things . Yeah . And the other things , people can write whatever they want . I mean , it 's to some extent , uh , for his benefit . So , if that {disfmarker} you know , if {disfmarker} if we just keep it simple then maybe it 's still useful . Right . Yeah . I just realized we skipped the part that we were saying we were gonna do at the front where we each said who we were . The roll call . Right . I thought you did that on purpose . Roll call . But anyway , shall we do the roll call ? No , not a No , I just {disfmarker} My mind went elsewhere . So , uh , yeah , I 'm Morgan , and where am I ? I 'm on channel three . And I 'm Adam Janin on channel A . I 'm Jane Edwards , I think on channel B . I 'm Dan Ellis . Eric on channel nine . Liz , on channel one . Mari on channel zero . Katrin on channel two . Should we have used pseudo - names ? Should we do it a second time with pseudo No . {vocalsound} No . I 'm Rocky Raccoon {vocalsound} on channel {disfmarker} Let me , uh , turn that off . And , uh , do you want to do the P D As and the {pause} P Z Oh . PZM nearest , nearest , next nearest . Next one . Next nearest . Furthest . Far . PDM - right , PZA - right {disfmarker} PDA - right , PDA - left . OK . Thanks . Yeah , and eventually once this room gets a little more organized , the Jimlets {comment} will be mounted under the table , and these guys will be permanently mounted somehow . You know , probably with double - sided tape , but {disfmarker} So . You {disfmarker} So we won't have to go through that . Hmm . I have a question on protocol in these meetings , which is when you say \" Jimlet \" and the person listening won't know what that is , sh shou How {disfmarker} how do we get {disfmarker} Is that important information ? You know , the Jimlet {disfmarker} I mean , the box that contains the {disfmarker} Well , I mean , suppose we broaden out and go to a range of meetings besides just these internal ones . There 's gonna be lots of things that any group of people who know each other have in column {disfmarker} common {comment} that we will not know . Right . Mm - hmm . Right . OK . So the there will be jargon that we he There 'll be transcription errors . Good . Yeah . OK . I mean , we {disfmarker} we were originally gonna do this with VLSI design , and {disfmarker} and {disfmarker} and the reason we didn't go straight to that was because immediately ninety percent of what we heard would be {vocalsound} jargon to {disfmarker} to us . So . Well , that was just one of the reasons . But , yeah , definitely . Yeah . OK . Good . That {disfmarker} that 's right . There were others of course . Yeah . OK , so we were on the data collection {pause} {comment} and the summary issue . Right . We can go back . So , uh , u u So , actually there 's kind of three issues . There 's the CrossPad issue . Should we do it and , if so , what 'll we have them do ? Um , do we have s people write summaries ? Everybody or one person ? And then , do we ask people for how they would query things ? Is that {disfmarker} There 's {disfmarker} there 're sub - problems in that , in that where {disfmarker} or when do you actually ask them about that ? Right . I mean , that was {disfmarker} One thing I was thinking about was is that Dan said earlier that , you know , maybe two weeks later , which is when you would want to query these things , you might ask them then . Right . But there 's a problem with that in that if {pause} you 're not {disfmarker} If you don't have an interactive system , it 's gonna be hard to go beyond sort of the first level of question . Right . Right . And furth id explore the data further . Right . So . There 's {disfmarker} there 's another problem And {disfmarker} which is , um , we certainly do want to branch out beyond , uh , uh , recording meetings about Meeting Recorder . And , uh , once we get out beyond our little group , the people 's motivation factor , uh , reduces enormously . And if we start giving them a bunch of other things to do , how {disfmarker} you know , we {disfmarker} we did n you know another meeting here for another group and {disfmarker} and , uh , they were fine with it . But if we 'd said , \" OK , now all eight of you have to {disfmarker} {vocalsound} have to come up with , uh , the summar \" Well , I asked them to and none of them did . t See ? There we go . So , I {disfmarker} I asked them to send me ideas for queries after the meeting Mm - hmm . They {disfmarker} and no one ever did . Mm - hmm . I didn't follow up either . Yeah . So I didn't track them down and say \" please do th do it now \" . But , uh , no one spontaneously provided anything . I I 'm worried that if you did {disfmarker} even if you did push them into it , it {disfmarker} it {disfmarker} it might be semi - random , Right . uh , as opposed to what you 'd really want to know if you were gonna use this thing . Right . OK . I just don't know how else to generate the queries other than getting an expert to actually listen to the meeting and say \" that 's important , that might be a query \" . Tsk . Well , there is this other thing which y which you were alluding to earlier , which is , um , there are certain key words like , you know , \" action item \" and things like that , which could be used in , uh , t to some degree finding the structure . Yeah . Although {disfmarker} W And {disfmarker} and I also , um , was thinking , with reference to the n uh , note - taking , the advantage there is that you get structure without the person having to do something artificial later . And the fir third thing I wanted to say is the summaries afterwards , um , I think they should be recorded instead of written because I think that , um , it would take so long for people to write that I think you wouldn't get as good a summary . How about this idea ? That normally at most meetings somebody is delegated to be a note - taker . Yeah , good . Good point . And {disfmarker} So why don't we just use the notes that somebody takes ? Yeah . I mean , that gives you a summary but it doesn't really {disfmarker} How do you generate queries from that ? Well . But , I mean , maybe a summary is one of the things we 'd want from the output of the system . Yeah . Right . Right ? I mean , they 're something . It 's a {disfmarker} a kind of output you 'd like . Actually {disfmarker} And so {disfmarker} Uh , James and I were talking about this during one of the breaks . And the problem with that is , I 'm definitely going to do something with information retrieval even if it 's sort of not full full - bore what I 'm gonna do for my thesis . Right . I 'm gonna do something . I 'm not gonna do anything with summarization . And so if someone wants to do that , that 's fine , but it 's not gonna be me . Well , I think that we {disfmarker} I mean , the {disfmarker} the f the core thing is that you know once we get some of these issues nailed down , we need to do a bunch of recordings Well {disfmarker} and send them off to IBM and get a bunch of transcriptions even if they 're slightly flawed Yep . or need some other {disfmarker} And then we 'll have some data there . Yeah . And then , i i we can start l looking and thinking , what do we want to know about these things and {disfmarker} at the very least . Mm - hmm . Yeah {disfmarker} I actually want to say something about the note pad . So , if you could sense just when people are writing , and you tell them not to doodle , or try not to {pause} be using that for other purposes , {comment} and each person has a note pad . They just get it when they come in the room . Then you c you can just have a fff {comment} plot of wh you know , who 's writing when . Hmm . That 's all you {disfmarker} Activity . Yeah . And , you can also have notes of the meeting . But I bet that 's {disfmarker} that will allow you to go into the {disfmarker} sort of the hot places where people are writing things down . Mm - hmm . Oh , I see . I mean , you can tell when you 're in a meeting when everybody stops to write something down that something was just said . Mm - hmm . It may not be kept in the later summary , but at that point in time is was something that was important . Mm - hmm . And that wouldn't take any extra {disfmarker} That 's a nice idea . Mm - hmm . Or someone could just pu you could just put your hand on the pad It {disfmarker} Mm - hmm . and go like that if you want to . It 's {disfmarker} That 's a good idea but that doesn't {disfmarker} Maybe I 'm missing something , but that doesn't get to the question of how we come up with queries , right ? Well , what it does {disfmarker} Well , then you can go to the points where the {disfmarker} you could actually go to those points in time and find out what they were talking about . And you r Well , what it does is provide a different {disfmarker} Yeah . And {disfmarker} Uh , y I {disfmarker} I think it 's an interesting thing . I don't think it gets at the {disfmarker} the queries per - se , but it does give us an information fusion sort of thing that , you know , you wanna i say \" what were the hot - points of the meeting ? \" Yeah . That {disfmarker} that 's what I mean , is that I think it gets at something interesting but if we were asking the question , which I thought we were , of {disfmarker} of {disfmarker} of , um , \" how do we figure out what 's the nature of the queries that people are gonna want to ask of such a system ? \" , knowing what 's important doesn't tell you what people are going to be asking . But I bet it 's a good {pause} superset of it . Does it ? Well , yeah . Well , see , there are th I think you could say they 're gonna ask about , uh , when {disfmarker} uh , when did so - and - so s talk about blah . And at least that gives you the word {pause} that they might run a query on . At least you can find the locations where there are maybe keywords Maybe . I mean , i this would tell you what the hit is , and {disfmarker} not what the query is . Right . Right , right . What {disfmarker} It 'll tell you the hit but not the query . But I think {disfmarker} I think thinking about queries is a little bit dangerous right now . And so you could {disfmarker} you can generate a query from the hits , Right . but {disfmarker} We don't even know what {disfmarker} I mean , if you want to find out what any user will use , that might be true for one domain and one user , Mm - hmm . but I mean a different domain and a different user {disfmarker} Mm - hmm . Yeah , but we 're just looking for a place to start with that Um . because , you know , th what {disfmarker} what {disfmarker} what James is gonna be doing is looking at the user - interface and he 's looking at the query in {disfmarker} in {disfmarker} i We {disfmarker} we have five hours of pilot data of the other stuff but we have zero hours of {disfmarker} of {disfmarker} of queries . So he 's just sort of going \" where {disfmarker} where do I {disfmarker} where do I start ? \" w Well , th you could do {disfmarker} I think the summaries actually may help get us there , OK . for a couple reasons . One , if you have a summary {disfmarker} if you have a bunch of summaries , you can do a word frequency count and see what words come up in different types of meetings . Mm - hmm . So \" action item \" is gonna come up whether it 's a VLSI meeting , or speech meeting , or whatever . So words that come up in different types of meetings may be something that you would want to query about . Mm - hmm . Um , the second thing you could possibly do with it is just run a little pilot experiment with somebody saying \" here 's a summary of a meeting , what questions might you want to ask about it to go back ? \" Yeah , I think that 's difficult because then they 're not gonna ask the questions that are in the summary . Well {disfmarker} But , I think it would give {disfmarker} That 's one possi one possible scenario , though , is you have the summary , Mm - hmm . and you want to ask questions to get more detail . th Yeah , I think it has to be a participant . Well , it doesn't have to be . OK . So that {disfmarker} that is another use of Meeting Recorder that we haven't really talked about , which is for someone else , as opposed to as a {pause} remembrance agent , which is what had been my primary thought in the information retrieval part of it would be . But , uh , I guess if you had a meeting participant , they could use the summary to refresh themselves about the meeting and then make up queries . But it 's not {disfmarker} Mm - hmm . I don't know how to do it if {disfmarker} until you have a system . The summary is actually gonna drive the queries then . Mmm . Yeah . I mean , your research is going to be very circular . Yeah . Yeah , that {disfmarker} that 's what I was saying . But th there is this , um {disfmarker} {vocalsound} {vocalsound} {vocalsound} There is this class of queries , which are the things that you didn't realize were important at the time but some in retrospect you think \" oh , hang on , didn't we talk about that ? \" And it 's something that didn't appear in the summary but you {disfmarker} Mm - hmm . And that 's kind of what this kind of , uh , complete data capture is kind of nicest for . Right . Right . Right . Cuz it 's the things that you wouldn't have bothered to make an effort to record but they get recorded . So , I mean {disfmarker} And th there 's no way of generating those , u u until we just {disfmarker} until they actually occur . But you could always post - hoc label them . You know , it 's like {disfmarker} Right , right . Exactly . Yeah . Yeah . But I mean , it 's difficult to sort of say \" and if I was gonna ask four questions about this , what would they be ? \" Those aren't the kind of things that come up . But at least it would get us started . Oh , yeah . Yeah , sure . I also think that w if {disfmarker} if you can use the summaries as an indication of the important points of the {disfmarker} of the meeting , then you might get something like {disfmarker} y So if th if the obscure item you want to know more about was some form of data collection , you know , maybe the summary would say , you know , \" we discussed types of na data collection \" . And , you know {disfmarker} And {disfmarker} and maybe you could get to it by that . If you {disfmarker} if you had the {disfmarker} the larger structure of the {disfmarker} of the discourse , then if you can categorize what it is that you 're looking for with reference to those l those larger headings , then you can find it even if you don't have a direct route to that . Mmm . Although it seems like that 's , um , a high burden on the note - taker . I think that {disfmarker} That 's a pretty fine grain that the note - taker will have to take . Maybe Landay can put a student in to be a note - taker . I th No . I think you got to have somebody who knows the pro knows the topic or {disfmarker} you know , whose job it is delegated to be the note - taker . No ? Mm - hmm . Somebody who 's part of the meeting . No , I mean , but someone who can come sit in on the meetings and then takes the notes with them that the real note - taker {disfmarker} But they {disfmarker} And that way that one student has , you know , a rough idea of what was going on , and they can use it for their research . I mean , this isn't really necessarily what you would do in a real system , Mm - hmm . because that that 's a lot of trouble Mm - hmm . and maybe it 's not the best way to do it . But if he has some students that want to study that then they should sort of get to know the people and attend those meetings , Mm - hmm . and get the notes from the note - taker or something . Right . Hmm . Well , I think that 's a little bit of a problem . Their sort of note - taking application stuff they 've been doing for the last couple of years , and I don't think anyone is still working on it . Yeah . I think they 're done . Um , so I 'm not sure that they have anyone currently working on notes . So what we 'd have to interest someone in is the combination of note and speech . Mm - hmm . And so the question is \" is there such a person ? \" And I think right now , the answer is \" no \" . Well I 've b been thinking {disfmarker} We 'll just have to see . I 've been thinking about it a little bit here {disfmarker} about the {disfmarker} uh , th this , e um {disfmarker} I think that the {disfmarker} now I 'm thinking that the summary {disfmarker} a summary , uh , is actually a reasonable , uh , bootstrap into this {disfmarker} into what we 'd like to get at . It 's {disfmarker} it 's not ideal , but we {disfmarker} you know , we {disfmarker} we have to get started someplace . So I was {disfmarker} I was just thinking about , um , suppose we wanted to get {disfmarker} w We have this collection of meeting . We have five hours of stuff . Uh , we get that transcribed . So now we have five hours of meetings and , uh , you ask me , uh , uh , \" Morgan , what d you know , what kind of questions do you want to ask ? \" Uh , I wouldn't have any idea what kind of questions I want to ask . I 'd have to get started someplace . So in fact if I looked at summary of it , I 'd go \" oh , yeah , I was in that meeting , I remember that , um , what was the part that {disfmarker} \" And {disfmarker} and th I think that might then help me to think of things {disfmarker} even things that aren't listed in the summary , but just as a {disfmarker} as a {disfmarker} as a refresh of what the general thing was going on in the meeting . Mm - hmm . I think it serves two purpo purposes . One , as sort of a refresh to help bootstrap queries , Mm - hmm . Yeah . but also , I mean , maybe we do want to generate summaries . And then it 's {disfmarker} you know , it 's kind of a key . Well , yeah . That 's true too . Hmm . Yeah , absolutely . Then you want to have it . Uh {disfmarker} So how does the summary get generated ? Well , i i {disfmarker} ? I 'm not against the idea of a summary , By hand . but I wanted to think carefully about who 's generating it Or , d o and how {disfmarker} because the summary will drive the queries . What I {disfmarker} I think , you know , in most meetings , So {disfmarker} this one being {pause} different , but in most meetings that I attend , there 's somebody t explicitly taking notes , frequently on a laptop {disfmarker} Um , you can just make it be on a laptop , Mm - hmm . so then yo you 're dealing with ASCII and not somebody {disfmarker} you don't have to go through handwriting recognition . Um , and then they post - edit it into , uh , a summary and they email it out for minutes . I mean , that happens in most meetings . I I {disfmarker} I think that , um , there 's {disfmarker} we 're using \" summary \" in two different ways . So what you just described I would describe as \" minutes \" . Minutes . Right . Yeah . Yeah . And what I originally thought was , um , if you asked someone \" what was the meeting about ? \" OK . Hmm . And then they would say \" well , we talked about this and then we talked about that , and so - and - so talked about {disfmarker} \" And then you 'd have , like {disfmarker} I {disfmarker} e My thought was to have multiple people summarize it , on recording rather than writing because writing takes time and you get irrelevant other things that u take time , that {disfmarker} Mm - hmm . Whereas if you just say it immediately after the meeting , you know , a two - minute summary of what the meeting was about , I think you would get , uh , with mult See , I {disfmarker} I also worry about having a single note - taker because that 's just one person 's perception . And , um , you know , it {disfmarker} it 's releva it 's relative to what you 're focus was on that meeting , Mm - hmm . and {disfmarker} and people have different {comment} major topics that they 're interested in . A So , my proposal would be that it may be worth considering both of those types , you know , the note - taking and a spontaneous oral summary afterwards , OK . Yeah . no longer than two minutes , Adam , you can {disfmarker} from multiple people . you can correct me on this , Yeah . but {disfmarker} but , uh , my impression was that , uh , pretty much , uh , true that the meetings here , nobody sits with a w uh , with a laptop Never . and {disfmarker} Never . I 've never seen it at ICSI . Does anyone {disfmarker} ? Dan ? I I mean , Dan is the one who {disfmarker} who most frequently would take notes , Yeah . and {disfmarker} I 've d When we {disfmarker} when we have other meetings . When I have meetings on the European projects , we have someone taking notes . Oh , really ? Yeah , but those are bigger deal things . In fact , I often do it . Right ? Where you 've got fifteen peo Yeah . I mean , most {disfmarker} th this is one of the larger meetings . Most of the meetings we have are four or five people That 's true {disfmarker} are four or five people . Yeah . and you 're not {disfmarker} you don't have somebody sitting and taking minutes for it . Right . You just {vocalsound} get together and talk about where you are . So , I think it depends on whether it 's a business meeting or a technical discussion . Culture . Yeah . And I agree , Yeah . technical discussions you don't usually have somebody taking notes . Yeah . Yeah . The IRAM meeting , they {disfmarker} they take notes every {disfmarker} Do they ? There 's uh a person with a laptop {pause} at each meeting . How many people are those meetings ? There are more . I mean , there are ten - ish . Yeah . Y you should also have a record of what 's on the board . Yeah . They 're very sparse . I mean , I find it very {pause} hard to reconstruct what 's going on . I {disfmarker} I don't know how {disfmarker} Yeah . This is something early in the project we talked a lot about . I don't know how , but for instance , I mean , the outline is sort of up here and that 's what people are seeing . And if you have a {disfmarker} Or you shou could tell people not to {disfmarker} to use the boards . But there 's sort of this missing information otherwise . We sh we should {disfmarker} I agree , but {disfmarker} but you {disfmarker} you just {disfmarker} you g end up with video , I agree . Well , I don't know . and {disfmarker} and instrumented rooms . And {pause} that 's a different project , I think . f u I think for this data capture , it would be nice to have a digital camera Yeah , different {disfmarker} Uh , y just to take pictures of who 's there , where the microphones are , and then we could also put in what 's on the board . You know , like three or four snaps for every {disfmarker} Right . I agree . Yeah . People who were never at the meeting will have a very hard time understanding it otherwise . for every meeting . That 's wonderful . Mm - hmm . But don't you think that 's {disfmarker} Don't you think that {disfmarker} But {disfmarker} I agree . Mm - hmm . Even people who were at the meeting . Well , no . I mean , I {disfmarker} I just think {disfmarker} I mean , I think that right now we don't make a record of where people are sitting on the tables . Right . Huh . And that {disfmarker} the {disfmarker} at some point that might be awfully useful . Right . But I think adding photographs adds a whole nother level of problems . Mm - hmm . Mmm . Yeah . We n uh , It 's just a digital record . Not {disfmarker} not as part of the {disfmarker} not as a part of the data that you have to recover . I don't mean that you model it . Just {disfmarker} just in terms of {disfmarker} We should just {disfmarker} Like archiving it or storing it . Yeah . Yes , I agree . I agree . Mm - hmm . It 's i because discourse is about things , Because someone {disfmarker} and then you have the things that are about , and it 's recoverable . someone later might be able to take these and say \" OK , they , you know {disfmarker} at least these are the people who were there So {disfmarker} and here 's sort of what they started talking about , and {disfmarker} \" and just {disfmarker} Yes . And it 's so simple . Li Like you said , three snapshots uh , L L L and {disfmarker} Liz , you {disfmarker} Just to archive . u uh , Liz , you sa you sat in on the , uh , {vocalsound} subcommittee meeting or whatever {disfmarker} Actually {disfmarker} uh , on {disfmarker} you {disfmarker} on the subcommittee meeting for {disfmarker} for {disfmarker} at the , uh {disfmarker} that workshop we were at that , uh , uh , Mark Liberman was {disfmarker} was having . So I {disfmarker} I wasn't there . They {disfmarker} they {disfmarker} they {disfmarker} they h must have had some discussion about video and the visual aspect , and all that . Big , big interest . Huge . Yeah . I mean , it {disfmarker} personally , I don't {disfmarker} I would never want to deal with it . But I 'm just saying first of all there 's a whole bunch of fusion issues that DARPA 's interested in . Yeah . Yeah . You know , fusing gesture and face recognition , Yeah . even lip movement and things like that , for this kind of task . And there 's also I think a personal interest on the part of Mark Liberman in this kind of {disfmarker} in storing these images in any data we collect Mm - hmm . so that later we can do other things with it . Yeah . So {disfmarker} so to address what {disfmarker} what Adam 's saying , Mmm . Mm - hmm . And {disfmarker} I mean , I think you {disfmarker} uh , that the key thing there is that this is a description of database collection effort that they 're talking about doing . Mm - hmm . And if the database exists and includes some visual information that doesn't mean that an individual researcher is going to make any use of it . Right ? Mm - hmm . So , uh {disfmarker} But that {disfmarker} it 's gonna be a lot of effort on our part to create it , and store it , and get all the standards , and to do anything with it . Right . So we 're gonna {disfmarker} So we 're gonna do what we 're gonna do , whatever 's reasonable for us . Yeah . I think even doing something very crude {disfmarker} But having {disfmarker} Like I know with ATIS , we just had a tape recorder running all the time . Mm - hmm . And later on it turned out it was really good that you had a tape recorder of what was happening , even though you w you just got the speech from the machine . So if you can find some really , you know , low , uh , perplexity , Low fidelity . yeah , {comment} way of {disfmarker} of doing that , I think it would be worthwhile . Yeah . I agree . And if it 's simple as {disfmarker} I mean , as simple as just the digital {disfmarker} Otherwise you 'd {disfmarker} you lose it . Well , minimally , I mean , what {disfmarker} what Dan is referring to at least having some representation of the p the spatial position of the people , Yeah . cuz we are interested in some spatial processing . Mm - hmm . Mm - hmm . And so {disfmarker} Right . so , um {disfmarker} Well , once the room is a little more fixed that 's a little easier Yeah . cuz you 'll {disfmarker} Yeah . Well , the wireless . Yeah . But {disfmarker} Also CMU has been doing this and they were the most vocal at this meeting , Alex Waibel 's group . And they have {pause} said , I talked to the student who had done this , {comment} that with two fairly inexpensive cameras they {disfmarker} they just recorded all the time Mm - hmm . and were able to get all the information from {disfmarker} or maybe it was three {disfmarker} from all the parts of the room . So I think we would be {disfmarker} we might lose the chance to use this data for somebody later who wants to do some kind of processing on it if we don't collect it {comment} at all . Yeah . I {disfmarker} I {disfmarker} I don't disagree . I think that if you have that , then people who are interested in vision can use this database . The problem with it is you 'll have more people who don't want to be filmed than who don't want to be recorded . Mmm . So that there 's going to be another group of people who are gonna say \" I won't participate \" . Well , she 's not {pause} making {disfmarker} That 's true . Mm - hmm . Or you could put a paper bag over everybody 's head Um {disfmarker} and not look at each other and not look at boards , and just all be sitting {vocalsound} talking . Uh - huh . That would be an interes {vocalsound} Bu Well {disfmarker} Great idea . Well , there 's {disfmarker} that 'd be the {disfmarker} the parallel , yeah . But I think y she 's {disfmarker} we 're just proposing {pause} a minimal preservation of things on boards , Yeah . I definitely won't participate if there 's a camera . sp spatial organization {disfmarker} And you could anonymize the faces for that matter . You know , I mean , this is {disfmarker} But , you know , that 's a lot of infrastructure and work . We can talk about the {disfmarker} To set it up and then anonymize it ? It 's just one snapshot . No , it wa n not , um {disfmarker} No , no , no , no . We 're not talking about a movie . So {disfmarker} Not for {disfmarker} not for CMU . We 're talking about a snapshot . Mm - hmm . They have a pretty crude set - up . And they had {disfmarker} Mm - hmm . Yeah . they just turn on these cameras . They were {disfmarker} they were not moving or anything . Couldn't find it ? And stored it on analog media . Hmm ? Hmm . And they {disfmarker} they didn't actually align it or anything . They just {disfmarker} they have it , though . Yeah . Well , it 's worth considering . Maybe we don't want to {disfmarker} spend that much more time discussing it , Did they store it digitally , or {disfmarker} ? but {disfmarker} Hmm - mm . I think they just {disfmarker} or just put it on videotape ? I think they just had the videotapes with a c you know , a counter or something . Um , Mm - hmm . Well , I think for {disfmarker} I mean , for our purposes we probably will d I 'm not sure . we {disfmarker} we might try that some and {disfmarker} and we certainly already have some recordings that don't have that , uh , which , you know , we we 'll {disfmarker} we 'll get other value out of , I think . Yeah . Yeah . Th The thing is , if it 's easy to collect it {disfmarker} it th then I think it 's a wise thing to do because once it 's gone it 's gone . And {disfmarker} I 'm just {disfmarker} The community {disfmarker} If LDC collects this data {disfmarker} u I mean , and L - if Mark Liberman is a strong proponent of how they collect it and what they collect , there will probably be some video data in there . There you go . And so that could argue for us not doing it or it could argue for us doing it . The only place where it sort of overlaps is when some of the summarization issues are {disfmarker} actually could be , um , easier {disfmarker} made easier if you had {pause} the video . I think at the moment we should be determining this on the basis of our own , uh , interests and needs rather than hypothetical ones from a community thing . Mm - hmm . As you say , if they {disfmarker} {vocalsound} if they decide it 's really critical then they will collect a lot more data than we can afford to , uh , and {disfmarker} and will include all that . Mmm . Um , e I {disfmarker} I {disfmarker} I 'm not worried about the cost of setting it up . I 'm worried about the cost of people looking at it . In other words , it 's {disfmarker} it {disfmarker} it 'd be kind of silly to collect it all and not look at it at all . And so I {disfmarker} I {disfmarker} I think that we do have to do some picking and choosing of the stuff that we 're doing . But I {disfmarker} I am int I do think that we m minimally want {disfmarker} something {disfmarker} we might want to look at {disfmarker} at some {disfmarker} some , uh , subsets of that . Like for a meeting like this , at least , uh , take a Polaroid of the {disfmarker} {vocalsound} of the {disfmarker} of the boards , Of the board . Yeah . Or at least make sure that the note - taker takes a sh you know , a snapshot of the board . and {disfmarker} Exactly . a and know the position of the people {disfmarker} That 'll make it a lot easier for meetings that are structured . Exactly . Mm - hmm . I mean , otherwise later on if nobody wrote this stuff on the board down we 'd have a harder time summarizing it or agreeing on a summary . We {disfmarker} And it {disfmarker} Especially since this is common knowledge . I mean , this is shared knowledge among all the participants , and it 's a shame to keep it off the recording . Uh , except in {disfmarker} s er , if we weren't recording this , this {disfmarker} this would get lost . Right ? Yeah . Well , I don't understand that point . I mean , I just think that the {disfmarker} The point is that we 're not saving it anyway . Right ? In {disfmarker} in {pause} our real - life setting . Well {disfmarker} What do you mean we 're not saving it anyway ? I 've written all of this down and it 's getting emailed to you . And you 're gonna send it out by email , too . Well , uh , in that case we don't need to take pictures of it . Right . That would be the other alternative , to make sure that anything that was on the board , um , is in the record . Yeah . Yeah . Well {disfmarker} Well , that 's why {disfmarker} that 's why I 'm saying that I think the note - taking would be {disfmarker} I think in many {disfmarker} for many meetings there will be some sort of note - taking , in which case , that 's a useful thing to have {disfmarker} Uh , I mean , we {disfmarker} uh , we don't need to require it . Just like the {disfmarker} Mm - hmm . I mean , I think it would be great if we try to get a picture with every meeting . Um , I agree . so {disfmarker} so we won't worry about requiring these things , but the more things that we can get it for , the more useful it will be for various applications . So . So {disfmarker} So , I mean , departing for the moment from the data collection question but actually talking about , you know , this group and what we actually want to do , uh , so I guess that 's th the way {disfmarker} what you were figuring on doing was {disfmarker} was {disfmarker} was , uh , putting together some notes and sending them to {disfmarker} to everybody from {disfmarker} from today ? OK . So . Um {disfmarker} That 's great . So {disfmarker} {vocalsound} so the question {comment} that {disfmarker} that we started with was whether there was anything else we should do during {disfmarker} during th during the collection . Ow . And I guess the CrossPads was certainly one idea , uh , and we 'll get them from him and we 'll just do that . Right ? And then the next thing we talked about was the {disfmarker} was the summaries and are we gonna do anything about that . Well , before we leave the CrossPads and {disfmarker} and call it done . Oh , OK . So , if I 'm collecting data then there is this question of do I use CrossPads ? Yeah . So , I think that if we really seriously have me collect data and I can't use CrossPads , it 's probably less useful for you guys to go to the trouble of using it , um , unless you think that the CrossPads are gonna {disfmarker} n I 'm not {disfmarker} I 'm not sure what they 're gonna do . But {disfmarker} but having a small percentage of the data with it , I 'm not sure whether that 's useful or not . Maybe {disfmarker} maybe it 's no big deal . What {disfmarker} Maybe we just do it and see what happens . I guess the point was to try {disfmarker} again , to try to collect more information that could be useful later for {disfmarker} for the UI stuff . Mm - hmm . So it 's sort of Landay supplying it so that Landay 's stuff can be easier to do . Right . So it {disfmarker} it {disfmarker} Right now he 's g operating from zero , Nothing . and so even if we didn't get it done from UW , it seems like that would {disfmarker} could still {disfmarker} You shou OK . I mean , at least try it . I think it 'd be useful to have a small amount of it just as a proof of concept . Yeah . It will {disfmarker} Right . OK . You know , what you can do with things . And {disfmarker} and they seem to {pause} not be able to give enough of them away , so we could probably get more as well . Yeah . But not {disfmarker} not to rely on them for {pause} basic modeling . That 's true . So if it {disfmarker} if it seems to be really useful to you guys , we could probably get a donation to me . Yeah , I 'm not sure . I think it it {disfmarker} it will again depend on Landay , and if he has a student who 's interested , and how much infrastructure we 'll need . I mean , if it 's easy , we can just do it . Yeah . Um , but if it requires a lot of our time , we probably won't do it . Right . I guess a lot of the stuff we 're doing now really is pilot in one sense or another . Yeah . Yeah , we have to sort of figure out what we 're gonna do . And so we try it out and see how it works . Right . Yeah . I just wouldn't base any of the modeling on having those . Right . Yeah . Right . I ag I think I agree with that . It 's just {disfmarker} Right . OK . I think , though , the importance marking is a {pause} good idea , though . That if {disfmarker} if people have something in front of them {disfmarker} I 'd be sort of cool . I mean , it would {disfmarker} Yeah . That w shouldn't be hard for {disfmarker} Yeah . Do it on pilots or laptops or something . OK , if something 's important everyone clap . OK . So CrossPads , we 're just gonna try it and see what happens . OK . Yeah . Um , I think that 's right . OK . OK . The note - taking {disfmarker} So , I {disfmarker} I think that this is gonna be useful . So if we record data I will definitely ask for it . So , I j I think we should just say this is not {disfmarker} we don't want to put any extra burden on people , but if they happen to generate minutes , could {disfmarker} could they send it to us ? Yeah . Oh , OK . That 's fine . Absolutely . Mm - hmm . Mm - hmm . And then {disfmarker} Yeah . What I was gonna say is that I don't want to ask people to do something they wouldn't normally do in a meeting . It 's ver I just want to keep away from the artificiality . Mm - hmm . But I think it {pause} definitely if they exist . And then Jane 's idea of summarization afterward I think is not a bad one . Um , picking out {disfmarker} basically to let you pick out keywords , um , and , uh , construct queries . So who {disfmarker} who does this summarization ? Yeah , I 'm thinking that {disfmarker} People in the meeting . Yeah . You know , just at {disfmarker} at the end of the meeting , before you go , Uh - huh . Without hearing each other though , probably . go around the table . Yeah . Yeah . Or even just have one or two people stay behind . Yeah . Ugh . Yeah . Yeah . People with radio mikes can go into separate rooms and continue recording without hearing each other . That 's the nice thing . Well , then you should try them a few weeks later How fascinating . and {disfmarker} They have all these memory experiments about how little you actually retain And see {disfmarker} score them ? That 's right . Well , that 's the interesting thing , though . and wasn't {disfmarker} If we do {disfmarker} if we collect four different summaries , you know , we 're gonna get all this weird data about how people perceive things differently . Oh . It 's like {comment} this is not what we meant to research . Hmm . Right , right . Oh . Yeah . That could be very interesting . Mm - hmm . Hmm . Yeah . But {disfmarker} but again , like the CrossPads , I don't think I would base a lot of stuff on it , Ru I d yeah , I don't know how you would do it , though . because I think {disfmarker} I know when I see the {disfmarker} the clock coming near the end of the meeting , I 'm like inching towards the door . Mm - hmm . Running to {disfmarker} Yeah , So , fff ! Hmm . you 're probably not gonna get {pause} a lot of people wanting to do this . Maybe e Is email easier ? Well , I think if {disfmarker} I mean , I {disfmarker} when you first said do {disfmarker} do it , um , spoken , what I was thinking is , oh then people have to come up Mm - hmm . and you have to hook them up to the recorder . So , if they 're already here I think that 's good , Right . but if they 're not already here for {disfmarker} I 'd rather do email . I 'm much faster typing than anything else . Yeah , I 'd just try {disfmarker} Well , however the least intrusive and {disfmarker} and quickest way is , and th and closest to the meeting time too , cuz people will start to forget it as soon as they l leave . Yeah . Yeah . I think that {disfmarker} I think doing it orally at the end of the meeting is the best time . I don't know . At {disfmarker} I just don't {disfmarker} Mm - hmm . because they 're kind of a captive audience . Once they leave , Mm - hmm . you know , forget it . But {disfmarker} but i Yeah , read the digits , do the summary . Right . But , uh , I don't think that they 'll necessarily {disfmarker} you 'll {disfmarker} you 'll get many people willing to stay . Hmm . But , you know , if you get even one {disfmarker} w Well , I think it 's like the note - taking thing , I would s Yeah . that {disfmarker} that y that you can't {disfmarker} certainly can't require it or people aren't gonna want to do this . But {disfmarker} but if there 's some cases where they will , then it would be helpful . Hmm . And I 'm also wondering , couldn't that be included in the data sample so that you could increase the num you know , the words that are , uh , recognized by a particular individual ? If you could include the person 's meeting stuff and also the person 's summary stuff , maybe that would be uh , Yeah . It 's kind of nice . an ad addition to their database . Yeah . Hmm . Under the same acoustic circumstance , cuz if they just walk next door with their set - up , nothing 's changed , Right . just {disfmarker} So I have a question about queries , God , that 's bugging me . which is , um , Can we turn that light off ? You turn {disfmarker} uh {disfmarker} If {disfmarker} can we turn that just {disfmarker} that {disfmarker} that let {disfmarker} The fl the fluorescent light is flickering . Uh , let the record show the light is flickering . I don't know . Yeah . Yeah , there 's a {disfmarker} Oh , it is {disfmarker} it is like {disfmarker} OK . Yeah . Yeah . Very annoying . There you go . OK . Oh , much better . For a little while I thought it was just that I was really tired . Oh , yeah . Yeah . That 's better . Good . That and y {comment} Too much caffeine and really tired , Too much caffeine . but then I thought \" no , maybe that 's real \" . OK . So , I thought it was the projector for a moment . It was like , \" what 's going on ? \" Yeah . the question I had about queries was , um , so what we 're planning to do is have people look at the summaries and then generate queries ? Are {disfmarker} are we gonna try and o We {disfmarker} we 've just been talking , how do we generate queries ? Yeah . Well , I mean , And so that was one suggestion . so , the question I had is is have we given any thought to how we would generate queries automatically given a summary ? I mean , I think that 's a whole research topic un unto itself , Mmm . so that it may not be a feasible thing . But {disfmarker} Hello . Dan here . n Shouldn't Landay and his group be in charge of figuring out how to do this ? Yeah . I mean , this is an issue that goes a little bit beyond where {pause} we are right now . OK . They 're the expert Mari ? Yeah ? Someone wants to know when you 're getting picked up . Is someone picking you up ? Um , {vocalsound} what 's our schedule ? Well , you still wanted to talk with Liz . Let 's see , you and I need dis Uh , no , we did the Liz talk . And you and I need to Oh , oh . You already did the Liz talk . Yeah . So {disfmarker} so that was the prosody thing . OK . We - {vocalsound} I don't remember it . Um , we need to finish the {disfmarker} Oh , OK . It 's already four - fifteen . I have like no recall memory . Uh , after . Yeah . We need to {pause} finish this discussion , and you and I need a little time for wrap - up and quad chart . So , And what ? um {disfmarker} I 'm at your disposal . So , up to you . Um , what {disfmarker} what 's the plan for this discussion ? We should {disfmarker} Um , I think we should be able to wind up in another half - hour or something , you think ? At least . Yeah . Uh , less . m i Even if that much ? Yeah . Less ? Less . So , I think {disfmarker} It 's interesting that he 's got , like , {pause} this discussion free Well , I mean , we still haven't talked about the action items from here and so on . Action {disfmarker} Yeah .  So , yet it 's separate . And {disfmarker} e e why don't you say five - thirty ? I don't {disfmarker} OK , five - thirty . Is that OK ? We 'll probably hit horrible traffic . Sounds {disfmarker} OK . h Thanks , bye . That 's not a lot of time , That 's that . but {disfmarker} Yeah . Well , in answer to \" is it Landay 's problem ? \" , um , he doesn't have a student who 's interested right now in doing anything . So he has very little manpower . Um , there 's very little allocated for him and also he 's pretty focused on user interface . So I don't think he wants to do information retrieval , query generation , that sort of stuff . Yeah , well there 's gonna be these student projects that can do some things but it can't be , yeah , very deep . u I {disfmarker} I actually think that {disfmarker} that , uh , again , just as a bootstrap , {comment} if we do have something like summaries , then having the people who are involved in the meetings themselves , who are cooperative and willing to do yet more , come up with {disfmarker} with {disfmarker} with queries , uh , could at least give {disfmarker} give Landay an idea of the kind of things that people might want to know . I mean , ye Right ? If he doesn't know anything about the area , and {disfmarker} the people are talking about and {disfmarker} and , uh {disfmarker} But the people will just look at the summaries or the minutes and re and sort of back - generate the queries . That 's what I 'm worried about . So you might as well just give him the summaries . Mm - hmm . And {disfmarker} Maybe . Well , I 'm not sure {disfmarker} I 'm not sure that 's a solved problem . y Well , but I think {disfmarker} Oh , OK . Right ? Of how to {disfmarker} how to generate queries from a {disfmarker} How to do this from the summary . Yeah . I , uh {disfmarker} That was sort of what my {pause} question was {pause} aimed towards . So what you want to h to do is , people who were there , who later see , uh , minutes and s put in summary form , which is not gonna be at the same time as the meeting . There 's no way that can happen . Are we gonna later go over it Hmm . Right . Right . and , like , make up some stuff to which these notes would be an answer , or {disfmarker} or a deeper {disfmarker} Yeah . I mean {disfmarker} Or {disfmarker} or just a memory refresher . But that 's done off {disfmarker} they have to do that off - line . Yep . I agree . You I 'm also wondering if we could ask the {disfmarker} the people a {disfmarker} a question which would be \" what was the most interesting thing you got out of this meeting ? \" Becau - in terms of like informativeness , That 's a good one . it might be , you know , that the summary would {disfmarker} would not in even include what the person thought was the most interesting fact . I would think that would be the most likely thing . Dan doesn't know what sex he is . Yeah , really . But actually I would say that 's a better thing to ask than have them summarize the meeting . I think you get two different types of information . You get two {disfmarker} Yeah , that 's true . Yeah . Because you get , like , the general structure of important points and what the {disfmarker} what the meeting was about . Hey . Ah Yeah . We 're still here . So you get the general structure , the important points of what the meeting was about {pause} with the summary . But with the \" what 's the most interesting thing you learned ? \" {disfmarker} Uh , so the fact that , uh , I know that Transcriber uses Snack is something that I thought was interesting Going to see the kids . You {disfmarker} you can keep it on . and that {disfmarker} and that Dan worked on {disfmarker} on that . So I thought that was really {disfmarker} you know . So , I mean , you could ge pick up some of the micro items that wouldn't even occur as major headings Mm - hmm . but could be very informative . Yeah , that 's actually a really good idea . I think it wouldn't be too , uh , uh , cost - intensive either . You know , I mean , it 's like something someone can do pretty easily on the spur of the moment . Are you thinking about just asking one participant or all of them ? As many are willing to do it . Make it a voluntary thing , Yeah . Cuz you 'll get {disfmarker} cuz you 'll get very different answers from everybody , right ? and then {disfmarker} Yeah . That 's why I was wondering . So {disfmarker} Well , maybe one thing we could do is for the meetings we 've already done {disfmarker} I mean , I {disfmarker} we didn't take minutes and we don't have summaries . But , uh , people could , like , listen to them a little bit and {pause} generate some queries . Yeah . Of course Jane doesn't need to . I 'm sure you have that meeting memorized by now . Yeah . But actually it would be an easy thing to just go around the room and say {pause} what was the most interesting thing you learned , Mmm . Yeah . Yeah . for those pe people willing to stay . And that {disfmarker} I think it would pick up the micro - structure , the {disfmarker} some {disfmarker} some of the little things that would be hidden . And {disfmarker} and that might be something people are willing to stay for . Boy , I {disfmarker} I don't know how we get at this {disfmarker} That would be interesting . Yeah , but when you go around the room you might just get the effect that somebody says something Or want to get up and leave . and then you go around the room and they say \" yeah , me too , I agree . \" Me too , me too , me too . Yeah . That 's fine . So {disfmarker} On the other hand people might try and come up with different ones , right ? Well {disfmarker} They might say \" oh , I was gonna say that one but now I have to think of something else \" . Well , you have the other thing , that {disfmarker} that they know why we 're doing it . We 'll {disfmarker} I mean , we 'll {disfmarker} we 'll be telling them that the reason we 're trying to do this is {disfmarker} is to d generate queries in the future , so try to pick things that other people didn't say . It 's gonna take some thought . I mean , It seemed {disfmarker} {vocalsound} The kind of , uh , interest that I had in this thing initially was , uh , that i basically the form that you 're doing something else {pause} later , Mm - hmm . and you want to pick up something from this meeting related to the something else . So it 's really the imp the {disfmarker} the list of what 's important 's in the something else Right . rather than the {disfmarker} Mmm . And it might be something minor {disfmarker} of minor importance to the meeting . Mm - hmm . Right . Uh , in fact if {disfmarker} if it was really major , if it 's the thing that really stuck in your head , then you might not need to go back and {disfmarker} and {disfmarker} and check on it even . So it 's {disfmarker} it 's that you 're trying to find {disfmarker} {comment} You 're {disfmarker} you 've now {disfmarker} You weren't interested {disfmarker} Say I {disfmarker} I said \" well , I wasn't that much interested in dialogue , I 'm more of an acoustics person \" . Right . But {disfmarker} but thr three months from now if for some reason I get really interested in dialogue , and I 'm \" well what is {disfmarker} what was that part that {disfmarker} that {disfmarker} that , uh , Mari was saying ? \" Yeah , like Jim Bass says \" add a few lines on dialogue in your next perf \" Uh {disfmarker} Yeah . Yeah . Yeah . And then I 'm trying to fi I mean , that 's {disfmarker} that 's when I look {disfmarker} in general when I look things up most , is when it 's something that {vocalsound} didn't really stick in my head the first time around and {disfmarker} but for some {comment} new reason I 'm {disfmarker} I 'm {disfmarker} I 'm interested in {disfmarker} in {disfmarker} in the old stuff . But that {disfmarker} that 's gonna be very hard to generate . Well , I {disfmarker} That 's hard to generate So , I don't {disfmarker} I don't know . Mm - hmm . Do we {disfmarker} and {disfmarker} and I think that 's half of what i I would use it for . But I also a lot of times um , make {disfmarker} you know , think to myself \" this is interesting , Mm - hmm . I 've gotta come back and follow up on it \" . Mm - hmm . Mm - hmm . So , things that I think are interesting , um , I would be , uh , wanting to do a query about . And also , I like the idea of going around the room , because if somebody else thought something was interesting , I 'd kind of want to know about it and then I 'd want to follow up on it . Hmm . Yeah . That {disfmarker} that might get at some of what I was {disfmarker} I was concerned about , uh , being interested in something later that w uh , I didn't consider to be important the first time , which for me is actually the dominant thing , because if I thought it was really important it tends to stick more than if I didn't , but some new {pause} task comes along that makes me want to look up . But {disfmarker} But what 's interesting to me may not b have been interesting to you . Yeah . So having multiple people might get at some of that . By {disfmarker} so by going around {disfmarker} Yeah . Yeah . Yeah , I {disfmarker} I think {pause} you can't get at all of it , Yeah . right ? W we just need to start somewhere . Yeah , and this is a starting point . Uh - huh . The question {disfmarker} the question then is h h how much bias do we introduce by {disfmarker} you know , introduce by saying , you know , this was important now and , you know , maybe tha something else is important later ? Mm - hmm . I mean , does it {disfmarker} does the bias matter ? I {disfmarker} I don't know . I mean , uh , that 's , I guess , a question for you guys . But {disfmarker} Well , and {disfmarker} and one thing , we {disfmarker} we 're saying \" important \" and we 're saying \" interesting \" . Uh , yeah , yeah . And {disfmarker} and those {disfmarker} those can be two different things . Mm - hmm . Sure , sure . But I {disfmarker} I {disfmarker} I guess that 's the question , really , is that {disfmarker} I mean , Mm - hmm . W does building queries based on what 's important now introduce an irreversible bias on being able to do what Morgan wants to do later ? Well , irreversible . OK , good . That 's {disfmarker} that 's {disfmarker} I {disfmarker} I {disfmarker} I mean , I guess what I what I {disfmarker} I keep coming back to in my own mind is that , um , the soonest we can do it , we need to get up some kind of system Yeah . Right . so that people who 've been involved in the meeting can go back later , even if it 's a poor system in some ways , and , uh {disfmarker} and ask the questions that they actually want to know . If {disfmarker} you know , if {disfmarker} uh , as soon as we can get that going at any kind of level , then I think we 'll have a much better handle on what kind of questions people want to ask than in any {disfmarker} anything we do before that . But obviously we have to bootstrap somehow , Right . and {disfmarker} Sure . Mm - hmm . Right . I agree . I will say that {disfmarker} that I {disfmarker} I chose \" interesting \" because I think it includes also \" important \" in some cases . But , um , I {disfmarker} I {disfmarker} I feel like the summary gets {pause} at a different type of information . I think \" important \" can often be uninteresting . Mmm . Mmm . And \" interesting \" is more interesting than \" important \" . Hmm . Well , and {disfmarker} and also {disfmarker} i it puts a lot of burden on the person to {disfmarker} to evaluate . You know , I think inter \" interesting \" is {disfmarker} is non - threatening in {disfmarker} OK - OK . Yeah . In the interest of , um , Importance ? Yeah . generati {comment} generating an interesting summary , {comment} um {disfmarker} Mm - hmm . Yeah . No , i in the interest of generating some minutes here , uh , and also moving on to action items and other things , let me just go through the things that I wrote down as being important , um , that we at least decided on . CrossPads we were going to try , um , if Landay can get the , uh {disfmarker} get them to {disfmarker} to you guys , um , and see if they 're interesting . And if they are , then we 'll try to get m do it more . Um , getting electronic summary from a note - taking person if they happen to do it anyway . Mm - hmm . Um , getting {pause} just , uh , digital pictures {disfmarker} a couple digital pictures of the {disfmarker} the table and boards to set the context of the meeting . Uh , and then going around the room at the end to just say {disfmarker} qu ask people to mention something interesting that they learned . So rather than say the most interesting thing , something interesting , k and that way you 'll get more variety . Sure . Mm - hmm . I wouldn't even say that \" that they learned \" . That 's good . I like that . I like that . OK . Yeah . Uh , you might want to mention something that {disfmarker} that you brought up . \" Thing {pause} that was {pause} discussed . \" And then the last thing c would be for those people who are willing to stay afterwards and give an oral summary . Mm - hmm . OK ? Does that pretty much cover everything we talked about ? That {disfmarker} well , that we want to do ? Mm - hmm . A And one {disfmarker} and one qualification on {disfmarker} on the oral summaries . They 'd be s they 'd be separate . They wouldn't be hearing each other 's summaries . OK . Yeah , that 's like {disfmarker} n I think that 's gonna predominantly end up being whoever {pause} takes down the equipment then . And {disfmarker} and that would also be that the data would be included in the database . Yeah , that would be , let 's see , me . Mm - hmm . Mm - hmm . I mean , there is still this hope that people might actually think of real queries they really want to ask at some point . OK . And that if {disfmarker} if that ever should happen , then we should try and write them down . Mm - hmm . Right . Mm - hmm . Give them a reward , a dollar a query ? Yeah , really . Yeah . If they 're real queries . OK . So {disfmarker} Well , and again , if we can figure out a way to jimmy a {disfmarker} a {disfmarker} a {disfmarker} a very rough system , say in a year , then {disfmarker} uh , so that in the second and third years we {disfmarker} we actually have something to {disfmarker} Yeah . Yeah . Play with and generate real queries from . ask queries . Right . OK . Yeah . Yeah . So . Yeah . Uh {disfmarker} I think {disfmarker} I just wanted to say one thing about queries . I mean , {vocalsound} {vocalsound} the level of the query could be , you know , very low - level or very high - level . And it gets fuzzier and fuzzier as you go up , right ? Well , we 're gonna {disfmarker} So you need to have some sort of {disfmarker} if you start working with queries , some way of identifying what the {disfmarker} you know , if this is something that requires a {disfmarker} a one - word answer or it 's one place in the recording versus was there general agreement on this issue of all the people who ha Hmm . You know , you can gen you can ask queries that are meaningful for people . Yep . In fact , they 're very meaningful cuz they 're very high - level . But they won't exist anywhere in the {pause} a you know {disfmarker} Absolutely . So I think we 're gonna have to start with keywords Mm - hmm . and {disfmarker} and if someone becomes more interested we could work our way up . I I 'm {disfmarker} I I 'm not so sure I agree with that . It {disfmarker} But it may well {disfmarker} But {disfmarker} Because {disfmarker} uh , b because it depends on , uh , what our goal is . Really ? If our goal is Wizard of Oz - ish , we might want to know what is it that people would really like to know about this data . Oh , that 's true . And if it 's {disfmarker} if {disfmarker} if it 's something that we don't know how to do yet , th great , Yeah . Right . Yeah . that 's , you know , research project for year four or something . Mm - hmm . Research , yeah . You know ? Mm - hmm . Yeah , I was thinking about Wizard of Oz , but it requires the wizard to know all about the meetings . We 'd have to listen to all the data . Um , well , not {disfmarker} maybe not true Wizard of Oz So . because people are too Oh , yeah . I {disfmarker} I understand . uh , aware of what 's going on . Well just imagine if {disfmarker} But {disfmarker} but just {disfmarker} Get people to ask questions that they def the machine definitely can't answer at the moment , Yeah . w Just \" what would you like to know ? \" but {disfmarker} Yep . Yeah . But that {disfmarker} neither could anyone else , though , is what , uh , my point is . Yes . I I was wondering if {disfmarker} if there might be one s more source of queries which is indicator phrases like \" action item \" , OK . which could be obtained from the text {disfmarker} from the transcript . Right . Since we have the transcript . Yeah . Dates maybe . I don't know . That 's something I always forget . Yeah , that 's something to be determined , something to be specified , Well , probably if you have to sit there at the end of a meeting and say one thing you remember , it 's probably whatever action item was assigned to you . but text - oriented . I mean , in gen that 's all I remember from most meetings . That {disfmarker} that 's all I wrote down . I think you 'd remember that , yeah . So , in general , I mean , that could be something you could say , right ? I 'm supposed to {pause} do this . It {disfmarker} it doesn't {disfmarker} Yeah , that 's true . Well , but then you could {disfmarker} you could prompt them to say , you know , \" other than your action item \" , you know , whatever . Well {disfmarker} But {disfmarker} but the action item would be a way to get , uh , maybe an additional query . I mean , that 's realistically what people might {pause} well be remembering . So . So . Hmm . Yeah . Well , but {disfmarker} you know , but you could get again @ @ {disfmarker} Well , we 're piloting . We 'll just do it and see what happens . Yeah . Yeah . Yeah . Yeah . I usually don't remember my action items . But {disfmarker} {vocalsound} I 'd {disfmarker} I {disfmarker} OK - OK . Speaking of action items , can we move on to action items ? Yeah . Mm - hmm . Sure . Can you hand me my note pad ? Yeah . yeah . Um , or maybe we should wait until the summary of this {disfmarker} until this meeting is transcribed and then we will hav We {disfmarker} we had {disfmarker} I mean , Yeah . Then we 'll know . Thanks . somewhere up there we had milestones , but I guess {disfmarker} Did y did you get enough milestone , uh , from the description things ? I got {disfmarker} Yeah . In fact , why don't you hand me those transparencies so that I remember to take them . eee , OK . OK . And , you know , there 's obviously {pause} detail behind each of those , as much as is needed . So , you just have to {pause} let us know . OK . What I have down for action items is we 're supposed to find out about our human subject , um , {vocalsound} requirements . Good . Uh , Yep . people are supposed to send me U R for their {disfmarker} for web pages , to c and I 'll put together an overall cover . And you 're s Right . We {disfmarker} Hmm ? we need to look at our web page And {disfmarker} and you also need to look at your web page and make one that 's {disfmarker} that 's p and clean it up by mid - July . PDA - free . Right . Yeah . Um , Right . let 's see . Choo - choo - choo . We {disfmarker} Mailing lists . Mailing list ? Uh , you need to put together a mailing list . Three of them . Uh , I think w Well {disfmarker} {vocalsound} I mean , Yeah . uh , Um , mostly together . uh , I need to email Adam or Jane , um , about getting the data . Who should I email ? Uh , how quickly do you want it ? Um . My July is really very crowded . And so , uh {disfmarker} How about if I just c Uh , Right now all I want {disfmarker} I personally only want text data . I think the only thing Jeff would do anything with right now {disfmarker} But I 'm just speaking fr based on a conversation with him two weeks ago I had in Turkey . But I think all he would want is the digits . Um , but I 'll just speak for myself . I 'm interested in getting the language model data . Eh , so I 'm just interested in getting transcriptions . Mm - hmm . So then just email you ? OK . So y Sure , sure , sure . OK . Wh You could email to both of us , uh , just {disfmarker} I mean , if you wanted to . Mm - hmm . I mean , I don't think either of us would mind recei OK . i That 's right . but {disfmarker} but in any case I 'd be happy to send you the {disfmarker} And your email is ? i Edwards at ICSI . OK . w Dot Berkeley dot EDU , of course . And then {disfmarker} In {disfmarker} in our phone call , uh , before , we {disfmarker} we , uh {disfmarker} It turns out the way we 're gonna send the data is by , uh , And , uh {disfmarker} and then what they 're gonna do is take the CD - ROM and transfer it to analog tape and {vocalsound} give it to a transcription service , uh , that will {disfmarker} Oh , is this IBM ? Yeah . Yeah , using foot pedals Yeah , foot {disfmarker} foot pedals and {disfmarker} and {disfmarker} Uh , so do they {disfmarker} How are they gonna do the multi - channel ? See , that 's a good question . Yeah . They {disfmarker} they don't have a way . I thought so . No , I mean , it 'll be But they have a verification . probably about like you did , Mix ? and then there will be some things {disfmarker} you know , many things that don't work out well . And that 'll go back to IBM and they 'll {disfmarker} they 'll , uh {disfmarker} they run their aligner on it and it kicks out things that don't work well , which {disfmarker} you know , the overlaps will certainly be examples of that . And , uh {disfmarker} I mean , what w we will give them all of it . Right ? OK . That 's , uh , my question . We 'll give them all the {disfmarker} the multi - channel stuff So we 'll give them all sixteen channels and {disfmarker} and they 'll do whatever they want with it . Yeah . But you also should probably give them the mixed {disfmarker} You know , equal sound - level {disfmarker} Yeah . {vocalsound} Good idea . Mm - hmm . I mean , they 're not gonna easily be able to do that , probably . It 's not hard . Well {disfmarker} Ah , yeah . So . Mm - hmm . It 's also won't be adding much to the data to give them the mixed . But w I It 's not {disfmarker} Right . Right . It doesn't {disfmarker} it isn't difficult for us to do , Yep . Absolutely . i You should {disfmarker} Yeah . so we might as well just do it . You should {disfmarker} that may be all that they want to send off to their {pause} transcribers . Absolutely . So , sure . OK . Related to {disfmarker} to the conversation with Picheny , I need to email him , uh , my shipping address and you need to email them something which you already did . I did . I {disfmarker} I m emailed them the Transcriber URL , um , the on - line , uh , data that Adam set up , The URL so they can click on an utterance and hear it . and I emailed them the str streamlined conventions which you got a copy of today . Right . And I was gonna m email them the {disfmarker} which I haven't yet , a pointer to {disfmarker} to the web pages that we {disfmarker} that we currently have , cuz in particular they want to see the one with the {disfmarker} the way the recording room is set up Good . and so on , your {disfmarker} your page on that . Oh , excellent . Good . And then p possibly {disfmarker} I C - I CC ' ed Morgan . I should have sent {disfmarker} I should have CC ' ed you as well . OK . Not an immediate action item but something we do have to worry about is data formats for {disfmarker} for higher - level information . OK . Oh , yeah . We were gonna {disfmarker} Well , or d or not even higher level , different level , prosody and all that sort of stuff . We 're gonna have to figure out how we 're gonna annotate that . Yeah . We never had our data format discussion . Yeah , we w Right . Oh , I thought we did . We discussed , uh , musi musical score notation Oh , OK . But that 's not {disfmarker} That 's display . and {disfmarker} and its XML {disfmarker} That 's different than format . That 's {disfmarker} Well , um {disfmarker} W My {disfmarker} my u feeling right now on format is you guys have been doing all the work Well {disfmarker} uh , yeah . and whatever you want , we 're happy to live with . Yeah . Um , OK , excellent . other people may not agree with that , OK . So , what n important thing {disfmarker} but {disfmarker} Cuz I 'm not actually touching the data , Well , it c Right . so I shouldn't be the one to talk . But {disfmarker} No , I think that 's fine . So a key thing will be that you {disfmarker} we tell you Great . Yeah . what it is . Uh , we also had {disfmarker} \" Here 's a mysterious file Yeah . and {disfmarker} \" We also had the , uh , uh {disfmarker} that we were s uh , that you were gonna get us the eight - hundred number Oh , yeah . and we 're all gonna {disfmarker} we 're gonna call up your Communicator thing and {disfmarker} and we 're gonna be good slash bad , depending on how you define it , uh , users . Now , something that I mentioned earlier to Mari and Liz is that it 's probably important to get as many non - technical and non - speech people as possible in order to get some realistic users . So if you could ask other people to call and use our system , that 'd be good . Cuz we don't want people who already know how to deal with dialogue systems , Yeah . Or , {vocalsound} like if you have a {disfmarker} who know that you shouldn't hyper - articulate , for instance , and things like that . Or , like if you have somebody who makes your {disfmarker} your plane reservations for you , So . Yeah . um , which is Yeah , we can do that . the n Get my parents to do it . Yeah . Yeah . Seriously . Yeah , for instance . Yeah . Your grandmother . Hmm . Yeah . e You know , it could {pause} result in some good bloopers , which is always good for presentations . So {disfmarker} Um , anyway {disfmarker} Yeah .  I think my father would last through the second prompt before he hang {disfmarker} hung up . Mmm . My mother would have a very interesting conversation with it He would never use it . but it wouldn't have anything to do with the travel . OK . Um , other {disfmarker} OK . Let 's see , other action items . So I have the {disfmarker} We talked about that we 're getting the recording equipment running at UW . And so it depends , w e e e they 're {disfmarker} you know , they 're p m If that comes together within the next month , there at least will be , uh , uh , major communications between Dan and {vocalsound} UW folks Yeah . I mean , I 'm {disfmarker} I 'm shooting to try to get it done {disfmarker} get it put together by {pause} the beginning of August . as to {disfmarker} we should talk about it , but {disfmarker} Mmm . So , um , you know , if But we have {disfmarker} it {disfmarker} it 's {disfmarker} it 's pretty {disfmarker} We don't know . I mean , he {disfmarker} he s uh , he said that it was sitting in some room collecting dust We don't know . and {disfmarker} and so we don't know , i It 's probably unlikely that we 'll pull this off , i e but a at least it 's worth trying . Mm - hmm . What is it ? We don't know . Oh , OK . \" Recording equipment . \" Yeah . It 's a tape recorder . W We know it 's eight channels . Uh , we know it 's digital . It 's eight tape recorders . We don't even know if there 're microphones . So , we 'll find out . OK . Um , and I will email these notes {disfmarker} Um , I 'm not sure what to do about action items for the data stuff , although , then somebody {disfmarker} I guess somebody needs to tell Landay that you want the pads . Yeah , OK . I 'll do that . OK . Um , and he also said something about outside {disfmarker} there {disfmarker} that came up about the outside text sources , that he {disfmarker} he may have Mm - hmm . Oh ! some text sources that are close enough to the sort of thing that we can play with them for a language model . Hmm . Yeah , that was {disfmarker} uh , that was {disfmarker} What he was saying was this {disfmarker} he {disfmarker} this thing that , uh , Jason had been working on finds web pages that are thematically related to what you 're talking about . Well , that 's the idea . So that that {disfmarker} that would be a source of text which is {disfmarker} supposedly got the right vocabulary . Mm - hmm . Right . But it 's obviously very different material . It 's not spoken material , for instance , Yeah . But it 's p it might be {disfmarker} so {disfmarker} But {disfmarker} but that 's actually what I wanna do . That 's {disfmarker} that 's what I wanna work with , OK . is {disfmarker} is things that s the wrong material but the right da the right source . Yeah . Yeah . Yeah . Un - unfortunately Landay told me that Jason is not gonna be working on that anymore . Yeah . He 's switching to other stuff again . Yeah . He seemed {disfmarker} when I asked him if he could actually supply data , he seemed a little bit more reluctant . So , I 'll {disfmarker} I 'll send him email . I 'll put it in an action item that I send him email about it . And if I get something , great . If I don't get something {disfmarker} Who ? Landay or Jason ? Landay . And , uh , um , OK . OK . you know , otherwise , if you guys have any papers or {disfmarker} I could {disfmarker} I could use , uh {disfmarker} I could use your web pages . That 's what we could do . You 've got all the web pages on the Meeting Recor Yeah , why search for them ? Yeah ! They 're {disfmarker} we know where they are . True . Yeah , that 's true . Absolutely . Oh , forget this ! Sure . Well , but that 's not very much . I {disfmarker} One less action item . I can use what web pages there are out there on meeting recorders . Yep . Right . I mean , that {disfmarker} that 's {disfmarker} Yeah . Basically what his software does is h it picks out keywords and does a Google - like search . Yeah . Yeah . Yeah . Yeah . So we can {disfmarker} we can {disfmarker} we can do better than that . We can do that . Yeah . So you could {disfmarker} Yeah . Yeah . Mm - hmm . There 's {disfmarker} there 's some , uh , Carnegie Mellon stuff , right ? On {disfmarker} on meeting recording , Yep . And Xerox . So , there 's {disfmarker} there 's ICSI , Xerox , and {disfmarker} And there 's {disfmarker} You should l look under , like , intelligent environments , And Xerox . Yeah . smart rooms , Um , the \" Georgia Tech Classroom Two Thousand \" is a good one . um {disfmarker} CMU , Right . And then {disfmarker} Right . J There 's {disfmarker} th That 's where I thought you would want to eventually be able to have a board or a camera , Mm - hmm . because of all these classroom {disfmarker} Well , Georgia Tech did a very elaborate instrumented room . Mm - hmm . Yeah . And I want to try to stay away from that . So {disfmarker} OK . Great . That solves that problem . One less action item . Um {disfmarker} OK . I think that 's good enou that 's {disfmarker} that 's pretty much all I can think of . Can I ask , uh , one thing ? It relates to data {disfmarker} data collection and I {disfmarker} and I 'd {disfmarker} and we mentioned earlier today , this question of {disfmarker} um , so , um , I s I know that from {disfmarker} with the near - field mikes some of the problems that come with overlapping speech , uh , are lessened . But I wonder if {disfmarker} Uh , is that sufficient or should we consider maybe getting some data gathered in such a way that , um , u w we would c uh , p have a meeting with less overlap than would otherwise be the case ? So either by rules of participation , or whatever . Oh , yeah . Now , I mean , you know , it 's true , I mean , we were discussing this earlier , that depending on the task {disfmarker} so if you 've got someone giving a report you 're not gonna have as much overlap . Adam ! But , um , i i uh , so we 're gonna have s you know , non - overlapping samples anyway . But , um , in a meeting which would otherwise be highly overlapping , is the near - field mike enough or should we have some rules of participation for some of our samples to lessen the overlap ? Hmm . turn off I don't think we should have rules of participation , but I think we should try to {pause} get a variety of meetings . That 's something that if we get the {disfmarker} the meeting stuff going at UW , that I probably can do more than you guys , OK . cuz you guys are probably mostly going to get ICSI people here . But we can get anybody in EE , uh , over {disfmarker} Mm - hmm . and {disfmarker} and possibly also some CS people , uh , over at UW . So , I think that {disfmarker} that there 's a good chance we could get more variety . OK . Just want to be sure there 's enough data to {disfmarker} Um , They 're still gonna overlap , OK , good . but {disfmarker} Mark and others have said that there 's quite a lot of found data {comment} from the discourse community that has this characteristic and also the political {disfmarker} Y you know , anything that was televised for a third party has the characteristic of not very much overlap . Mm - hmm . Mm - hmm . Wasn - but w I think we were saying before also that the natural language group here had less overlap . Mm - hmm . So . So it also depends on the style of the group of people . Right . Like the , um , dominance relations of the people in the meeting . Mm - hmm . On the task , and the task . Mm - hmm . It 's just {disfmarker} I just wanted to {disfmarker} uh , Yeah . because you know , it is true people can modify the amount of overlap that they do if {disfmarker} if they 're asked to . Yeah . Not {disfmarker} not entirely modify it , but lessen it if {disfmarker} if it 's desired . But if {disfmarker} if that 's sufficient data {disfmarker} I just wanted to be sure that we will not be having a lot of data which can't be processed . OK . So I 'm just writing here , we 're not gonna try to specify rules of interaction but we 're gonna try to get more variety by i using different {pause} groups of people Time . and different sizes . Fine . And I {disfmarker} you know , I {disfmarker} I know that the near f near - field mikes will take care of also the problems to s to a certain degree . e e Yeah . And then the other thing might be , um , uh , technical versus administrative . I just wanted to be sure . Cuz if I recorded some administrative meetings then that may have less overlap , because you might have more overlap when you 're doing something technical and disagreeing or whatever . Mm - hmm . Mm - hmm . Well , I {disfmarker} just as {disfmarker} as {disfmarker} as a contributary {disfmarker} eh , so I {disfmarker} I know that in l in legal depositions people are pr are prevented from overlapping . They 'll just say , you know {disfmarker} you know , \" wait till each person is finished before you say something \" . So it is possible to lessen if we wanted to . But {disfmarker} but these other factors are fine . I just wanted to raise the issue . Well , the reason why I didn't want to is be why I personally didn't want to {comment} is because I wanted it to be {pause} as , uh , unintrusive as possi Mm - hmm . Mm - hmm . as you could be with these things hanging on you . Oh , yeah . Yeah , I think that 's always desired . I just want to be sure we don't {disfmarker} that we 're able to process , i u uh , you know , as much data as we can . Yeah . Yeah . Did they discuss any of that in the {disfmarker} the meeting they had with L Liberman ? Mm - hmm . What {disfmarker} And there was a big division , What {disfmarker} what do they {disfmarker} so Liberman and others {pause} were interested in a lot of found data . Yeah . So there 's lots of recordings that {disfmarker} They 're not close - talk mike , Yeah . but {disfmarker} And {disfmarker} and there 's lots of television , you know , stuff on , um , political debates and things like that , congre congressional hearings . Boring stuff like that . Um , and then the CMU folks and I were sort of on the other side in {disfmarker} cuz they had collected a lot of meetings that were sort of like this and said that those are nothing like these meetings . Um , so there 're really two different kinds of data . And , I guess we just left it as {disfmarker} @ @ {comment} that {pause} if there 's found data that can be transformed for use in speech recognition easily , then of course we would do it , Mm - hmm . but newly collected data would {disfmarker} would be natural meetings . So . Actually , th @ @ {comment} the CMU folk have collected a lot of data . Is that {disfmarker} is that going to be publicly available , As far as I know , they h have not . or {disfmarker} ? Um , but e OK . It 's also {disfmarker} it 's not {disfmarker} it 's not near - far , right ? I 'm not sure . Um , if people were interested they could talk to them , but I {disfmarker} I got the feeling there was some politics involved . I think @ @ gonna add that to one of my action items . No . Just to check . I {disfmarker} I don't know . Yeah . W we should know what 's out there certainly . Yeah . I mean , the {disfmarker} Yeah . Cuz I had thought they 'd only done far - field , I think you need to talk to Waibel and {disfmarker} intelligent - room sorts of things . Oh , really ? It 's those guys . I hadn't known that then {disfmarker} they 'd done any more than that . Oh , they only did the far - field ? I see . Yeah . But they had multiple mikes and they did do recognition , and they did do real conversations . But as far as I know they didn't offer that data to the community at this meeting . Mm - hmm . But that could change cuz Mark {disfmarker} you know , Mark 's really into this . We should keep in touch with him . Yeah . Well , once we send out {disfmarker} Yeah , I think {disfmarker} I mean , we still haven't sent out the first note saying \" hey , this list exists \" . But {disfmarker} but , uh , once we do that {disfmarker} Is that an action item ? Yeah . It 's on {disfmarker} I already added that one on my board to do that . So , uh {disfmarker} uh , hopefully everybody here is on that list . We should at least check that everybody here {disfmarker} ? I think everyone here is on the list . Yeah . I 'm not . u e e I think you are . We haven't sent anything to the list yet . Oh ! OK . Yeah . We 're just compiling the list . I see . I {disfmarker} I added a few people who didn't {disfmarker} who I knew had to be on it even though they didn't tell me . Mm - hmm . Who specifically ask not to be . Like Jane , for example . Yeah . You are on it , aren't you ? Yeah , I am . Yeah . So , I w uh , just {disfmarker} just for clarification . So \" found data \" , they mean like established corpora of linguistics and {disfmarker} and other fields , right ? What they mean is stuff they don't have to fund to collect , It sounds like such a t and especially good {disfmarker} Yeah , OK . Well , I mean , \" found \" has , uh , also the meaning that 's it very natural . It 's things occur without any {disfmarker} You know , the pe these people weren't wearing close - talking mikes , but they were recorded anyway , like the congressional hearings and , you know , for legal purposes or whatever . OK . But it includes like standard corpora that have been used for years in linguistics and {pause} other fields . Mark 's aware of those , too . \" Hey , look what we found ! \" OK . That would be found data because they found it {vocalsound} and it exists . Hmm . Exactly . \" I found this great corpora . \" Yeah . They didn't have to collect it . Of course it 's not \" found \" in the sense that at the time it was collected for the purpose . \" Psst . {comment} Want to buy a corpora ? \" Yeah . OK , OK . But what he means is that {disfmarker} You know , Mark was really a fan of getting as much data as possible from {disfmarker} you know , reams and reams of stuff , of broadcast stuff , That 's interesting . web stuff , Mm - hmm . TV stuff , radio stuff . But he well understands that that 's very different than these {disfmarker} this type of meeting . It 's not the same . But , so what ? It 's still {disfmarker} it 's interesting for other reasons . OK . Yeah . Just wanted to know . So , seems like we 're winding down . Mm - hmm . Right ? Many {pause} ways . You can {pause} tell {pause} by the {pause} prosody . So we should go {disfmarker} go around and s Yeah . We should go around and say something interesting that happened at the meeting ? Oh . Yes , we should do that . Rrrh ! Now , I was already thinking about it , so {disfmarker} Oh ! Good man . This is painful task . Hmm . I {disfmarker} So , um , I really liked the idea of {disfmarker} what I thought was interesting was the combination of the CrossPad and the speech . Especially , um , the interaction of them rather than just note - taking . So , can you {pause} determine the interesting points by who 's writing ? Can you do special gestures and so on that {disfmarker} that have , uh , special meaning to the corpora ? I really liked that . Well , I {disfmarker} I just realized there 's another category of interesting things which is that , um , I {disfmarker} I found this discussion very , uh , i this {disfmarker} this question of how you get at queries really interesting . And {disfmarker} and the {disfmarker} and I {disfmarker} and the fact that it 's sort of , uh , nebulous , what {disfmarker} what that {disfmarker} what kind of query it would be because it depends on what your purpose is . So I actually found that whole process of {disfmarker} of trying to think of what that would involve to be interesting . But that 's not really a specific fact . I just sort of thought we {disfmarker} we went around a nice discussion of the factors involved there , which I thought was worthwhile . I had a real revelation about taking pictures . I don't know why I didn't do this before and I regret it . So that was very interesting for me . Mm - hmm . Did you take pictures of the boards ? Not that I {disfmarker} Yeah . The boards aren't really related to this meeting . I mean , I will take pictures of them , but {disfmarker} That 's a good point . They 're related to this morning 's meeting . But {disfmarker} Yeah . To the pre previous meeting . That 's right . OK . Well , that 's why I 'll take pictures of them , then . I 'm gonna pass because I can't {disfmarker} I mean , of the {disfmarker} Jane took my answer . Ah ! So . Oh . Um , so I 'm gonna pass for the moment but y come {disfmarker} come back to me . For the moment . Pass . I think {disfmarker} I think \" pass \" is socially acceptable . But I will say {disfmarker} uh , I will actually {disfmarker} uh , a spin on different {disfmarker} slightly different spin on what you said , this issue of , uh , realizing that we could take minutes , and that actually may be a goal . So that {disfmarker} that may be kind of the test {disfmarker} in a sense , test data , uh , the {disfmarker} the template of what we want to test against , generating a summary . So that 's an interesting new twist on what we can do with this data . I agree with Jane and Eric . I think the question of how to generate queries automatically was the most interesting question that came up , and it 's something that , as you said , is a whole research topic in itself , so I don't think we 'll be able to do anything on it because we don't have funding on it , uh , in this project . But , um , {vocalsound} it 's definitely something I would {pause} want to do something on . I wonder if work 's already been done on it . Like e expert systems and stuff , Hmm . or {disfmarker} ? Uh - huh . Well , being more management lately than {disfmarker} {vocalsound} than research , I think the thing that impressed me most was the people dynamics and not any of the facts . That is , I {disfmarker} I really enjoyed hanging out with this group of people today . So that 's what really impressed me . How are we gonna find that in the data ? Well , if we had people wearing the wireless mikes all the time {disfmarker} Oh , yeah . Yeah , I think {disfmarker} Well , I mean , one thing you could search for is were people laughing a lot . Right . Right ? So . Yeah . How happy were they ? I 'd probably search for something like that . That actually has come up a couple times in queries . I was talking to Landay Yeah . and that was one of his examples . Yeah . When {disfmarker} when did people laugh ? That 's great . Find me a funny thing that Jeff said . Yeah . So we need a laugh detector . Yeah . Mm - hmm . Perfect . Yeah . Cuz that seems to be pretty common . Not in the congressional hearings . No . Quiet sobbing . So I think we 're done . OK . OK . Great . Great . OK . I think we 're done . Great .  h Do we need {disfmarker} do I need to turn something off here , or I do unplug this , or {disfmarker} ? Now these we turn off . Right ?",
        "summarize": null
    }
]